Sources:

- https://www.reddit.com/r/learnmachinelearning/comments/if6xh7/best_way_to_get_opencv_dnn_module_with_cuda_on/
- https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg
---

The vcpkg commands you'll want is something like this:

``` 
vcpkg install cuda
vcpkg install cudnn
vcpkg install opencv4
```

However, some modules are optional, and won't be installed unless you specify them directly, or they are needed by something else that is installed. Looking at the opencv4 control file, it looks like the default features are dnn, jpeg, opengl, png, tiff, and webp. 
At the very least, you'll want to add cuda to that list. So that last line becomes:

```
vcpkg install opencv4[cuda]
```
---

## Explanation 

- Vcpkg is a tool that simplifies the process of adding and managing third-party libraries in C++ projects within Visual Studio 2022.
- It eliminates the need for complex configurations with CMake or advanced scripts, handling the management of libraries automatically.
- While this video provides a brief overview, a more comprehensive guide covering vcpkg installation in Visual Studio 2019 is available in the description.
- 
## Download/Install Git if not already
- The vcpkg can be found on Microsoft's GitHub page.
- Git will be used to install and manage the software.
- To check if Git is installed, open the command prompt and type "git"; if there is a response, Git is installed.

## Download vcpkg 
- The user should download the "vcpkg" file to a permanent folder on their computer. 
- The user should open a terminal or Powershell window in the directory where "vcpkg" was downloaded. 
- The user should paste the command "git clone" into the terminal to download vcpkg. 

## Installing vcpkg
- Navigates to the "vcpkg" directory using the command 
  ```
  cd vcpkg
  ```
- Run the bootstrap script using the command 
  ```
  .\bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
  or 
  .\bootstrap-vcpkg.sh
  ```   

- link the vcpkg installation with the existing Visual Studio 2022 installation 
  ```
  .\vcpkg integrate install
  ```
  - Note this will output a tip like below:
    ``` 
    Applied user-wide integration for this vcpkg root.
    CMake projects should use: 
    
    "-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=Path/to/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake"

    All MSBuild C++ projects can now #include any installed libraries. 
    Linking will be handled automatically. Installing new libraries will make them instantly available.
    ```

- Update vcpkg
  ```
  .\vcpkg update
  ```

## Search & Install packages with vcpkg 
- The command 
  ```
  ./vcpkg search <package>
  ````
   can be used to search for packages, for example, `./vcpkg search sqlite3`. 
- To install a package, use the command 
  `./vcpkg install <package>`, 
  - for example, `./vcpkg install sqlite3`. 
- By default, the 32-bit variant of the package will be downloaded and built. 

## Search & Install packages with x64 vcpkg 
- To install the 64-bit version of the SQLite3 library, use the command 
  `./vcpkg install sqlite3:x64-windows`. 
- This command will download and build both the debug and release versions of the library. 
- Once the build process is complete, the library can be referenced in projects. 

## Install packages with extras in vcpkg  
- Searching for a package will display available extras in brackets. 
- To install a package with specific extras, include the desired extras within brackets in the installation command. 
- For example, to install the CUDA package with the CUDA feature enabled, use the command:
  
  ```
  ./vcpkg install sqlite3
  ```

***
# TODO: !!!


`./vcpkg install sqlite3`

# ERROR: Build Failed

- Solution
---


## Where to find installed package files 
- Downloaded and installed projects are located in the "vcpkg" folder, under "installed," and then "x64-windows" or "x86-windows," depending on your system architecture. 
- To see the files for each package separately, navigate to the "vcpkg" folder and open the "packages" folder.
- The "packages" folder lists all downloaded and installed packages. 

## Upgrade packages with vcpkg 
- The command `vcpkg upgrade` followed by the package name, for example, `sqlite3`, can be used to check for updates. 
- Running the command with the package name will only inform the user if an update is available and will not perform the update. 
- To perform the update, the command must include `--no-dry-run`, which acknowledges that updating packages could cause issues. 

## Remove a package 
- To remove a package, use the command `vcpkg remove `. 
- Using the `--recursive` flag with the remove command will remove the specified package and any dependencies. 
- Removing a package without using the recursive flag will not remove dependencies and may cause issues. 

## Install x64 packages by default (Set default) 
- To change the default architecture for vcpkg package installations, users should open the environment variables settings on their computer. 
- Users should create a new environment variable named `VCPKG_DEFAULT_TRIPLET` and set its value to `x64-windows` to install x64 packages by default. 
- After restarting PowerShell and running the installation command, vcpkg will now install the x64 version of the package by default. 

## How to move vcpkg install 
- The `vcpkg integrate remove` command can be used to unlink Vcpkg from Visual Studio. 
- The entire Vcpkg folder can be moved to a different location. 
- Running `vcpkg integrate install` in the new directory will relink Vcpkg with Visual Studio. 


## Including vcpkg packages in VS2022 
- Upon adding `#include <sqlite>` to the C++ source code, Visual Studio 2022 successfully recognizes and suggests the SQLite library. 

## How to uninstall vcpkg 
- To uninstall vcpkg, run the command "./vcpkg integrate remove". 
- After running the command, you can delete the entire vcpkg folder. 
- More information about vcpkg can be found in the description of the video. 

---
## Integrate vcpkg as NuGet package (Separate projects) 
- It's possible to install vcpkg on a per-project basis using NuGet packages. 

### Steps:
1. Uninstall previous global vcpkg integration:
   ```
   vcpkg integrate remove
   ```

2. Generate a NuGet package for your project:
   ```
   vcpkg integrate project
   ```
   
   - This command generates a NuGet package and provides a command to add it to your project.

3. Copy the provided NuGet command.

4. In Visual Studio, open the Package Manager Console (Tools > NuGet Package Manager > Package Manager Console).

5. Paste and run the copied command to install the vcpkg NuGet package for your project.

6. After installing the vcpkg NuGet package, you can link dependencies in your project.

## What is NuGet?
- NuGet is a package manager for .NET and C++ projects.
- It simplifies the process of adding, updating, and removing external libraries in your projects.
- NuGet packages contain compiled code (DLLs), other files related to that code, and a descriptive manifest.

## Using NuGet in Visual Studio Code

### Steps:
1. Install the "NuGet Package Manager" extension in VS Code.

2. Open your project folder in VS Code.

3. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on macOS) to open the Command Palette.

4. Type "NuGet" and select "NuGet Package Manager: Add Package".

5. Search for the package you want to install.

6. Select the package and choose the version you want to install.

7. The package will be added to your project, and the necessary references will be included in your project file.

### Managing packages:
- To update a package: Use "NuGet Package Manager: Update Package" from the Command Palette.
- To remove a package: Use "NuGet Package Manager: Remove Package" from the Command Palette.

Remember to commit your `packages.config` or `.csproj`/`.vcxproj` file to version control to keep track of your project's dependencies.

---
